README.md, before:

# lms-canvas-canvas-notifier
App for authorized users to send Canvas messages to users in bulk.

## :warning: Important Security Disclaimer :warning:
This tool will temporarily elevate the permissions of the designated sender to that of an account admin in your Canvas instance.
Make sure that you are cool with that before using this tool!

## Running standalone
Add env vars or system properties as desired.

| ENV Property                           | System Property                        | Default Value             | Description                                                                                                    |
|----------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|---------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `APP_FULLFILEPATH`                     | `app.fullFilePath`                     | `/usr/src/app/config`     | Directory for configuration files                                                                              |
| `APP_OVERRIDESFILENAME`                | `app.overridesFileName`                | `overrides.properties`    | Customizable filename for additional configurations.  Would be located in the above directory.                 |
| `SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE`               | `spring.profiles.active`               |                           | Supply spring profiles to activate.  See configuration details below for potential values.                     |
| `APP_ENV`                              | `app.env`                              | `dev`                     | Environment designator.  Free-form and can be used for your own purposes.  Shows up in the application footer. |
| `LTI_CLIENTREGISTRATION_DEFAULTCLIENT` | `lti.clientregistration.defaultClient` | canvas                    | Specify the launching configuration to expect (canvas/saltire)                                                 |

## Setup Database
After compiling, see `target/generated-resources/sql/ddl/auto/postgresql9.sql` for appropriate ddl.
Insert a record into the `LTI_13_AUTHZ` table with your tool's registration_id (`lms_lti_canvasnotifier`), along with the client_id 
and secret from Canvas's Developer Key.  An `env` designator is also required here, and allows a database to support 
multiple environments simultaneously (dev and reg, for example).

### Add authorized users and senders
Add to the `CANVASNOTIFIER_USERS` table (either directly or via the rest endpoint) a record that maps to a user in your Canvas instance. 
A user in this table can either be a user, sender, or both.  Setting the appropriate flags will determine what that user can do.


## Test a local launch
Startup the application with the `LTI_CLIENTREGISTRATION_DEFAULTCLIENT` value set to `saltire`.
Use an LTI tool consumer launcher, like https://saltire.lti.app/platform.
Default values are fine, with the below exceptions...

In the `Message` section, set the following:
<table>
<tr><th>Property</th><th>Value</th></tr>
<tr><td>Custom parameters</td><td>

```
canvas_user_login_id=johnsmith
canvas_membership_roles=Instructor
```

</td></tr>
</table>

Use an appropriate `canvas_user_login_id`.

From the `Security Model` section, set the following:
<table>
<tr><th>Property</th><th>Value</th></tr>
<tr><td>LTI version</td><td>1.3.0</td></tr>
<tr><td>Message URL</td><td>http://localhost:8080/app/main</td></tr>
<tr><td>Client ID</td><td>dev (or whatever is appropriate based on the record inserted in the database table from above)</td></tr>
<tr><td>Initiate login URL</td><td>http://localhost:8080/lti/login_initiation/lms_lti_canvasnotifier</td></tr>
<tr><td>Redirection URI(s)</td><td>http://localhost:8080/lti/login</td></tr>
</table>

## Canvas JSON
Example json for the tool can be found in the [examples](examples) directory.

## Configuration
If choosing to use properties files for the configuration values, the default location is `/usr/src/app/config`, but that can be overridden by setting the `APP_FULLFILEPATH` value via system property or environment variable.
You may use `security.properties`, `overrides.properties`, or set the `APP_OVERRIDESFILENAME` value with your desired file name.

### Canvas Configuration
The following properties need to be set to configure the communication with Canvas and Canvas Catalog.
They can be set in a properties file, or overridden as environment variables.

| Property             | Default Value               | Description                                               |
|----------------------|-----------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|
| `canvas.host`        |                             | Hostname of the Canvas instance                           |
| `canvas.baseUrl`     | https://`${canvas.host}`    | Base URL of the Canvas instance                           |
| `canvas.baseApiUrl`  | `${canvas.baseUrl}`/api/v1  | Base URL for the Canvas API                               |
| `canvas.token`       |                             | Token for access to Canvas instance                       |
| `canvas.accountId`   |                             | Your institution's root accountId in your Canvas instance |
| `catalog.baseUrl`    |                             | Base URL of the Canvas Catalog instance                   |
| `catalog.baseApiUrl` | `${catalog.baseUrl}`/api/v1 | Base URL for the Canvas Catalog API                       |
| `catalog.token`      |                             | Token for access to the Canvas Catalog instance           |

### Database Configuration
The following properties need to be set to configure the communication with a database.
They can be set in a properties file, or overridden as environment variables.

| Property             | Description                                                                   |
|----------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `lms.db.user`        | Username used to access the database                                          |
| `lms.db.url`         | JDBC URL of the database.  Will have the form `jdbc:<host>:<port>/<database>` |
| `lms.db.driverClass` | JDBC Driver class name                                                        |
| `lms.db.password`    | Password for the user accessing the database                                  |

### Configure support contact information
The following properties need to be set to configure the contact information on the global error page.
They can be set in a security.properties file, or overridden as environment variables.

| Property                | Description                                                                                               |
|-------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `lti.errorcontact.name` | Display name for your support organization                                                                |
| `lti.errorcontact.link` | Contact mechanism - URL or mailto:email (e.g. `http://support.school.edu` or `mailto:support@school.edu`) |

### Configure recipients for job notifications
| Property                                 | Description                                                                  |
|------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `canvasnotifier.batchNotificationEmail`  | Comma separated list of email addresses where job notifications will be sent |

### Denodo Configuration
To enable the Denodo configuration, include the value `denodo` into the `SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE` environment variable. Be aware that if the tool requires multiple values, that there could be more than one profile value in there.
The following properties need to be set to configure the communication with the Denodo database.
They can be set in a properties file, or overridden as environment variables.

| Property                | Description                                                                                |
|-------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `denodo.db.driverClass` | JDBC Driver class name                                                                     |
| `denodo.db.url`         | JDBC URL of the Denodo database.  Will have the form `jdbc:vdb://<host>:<port>/<database>` |
| `denodo.db.user`        | Username used to access the Denodo database                                                |
| `denodo.db.password`    | Password for the user accessing the Denodo database                                        |

### Rabbit MQ Configuration
Job processing happens in the background, via a RabbitMQ job.  Configuring the queue requires the following settings:

| Property                          | Description                                                                                                           |
|-----------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `lms.rabbitmq.address`            | Address of the Rabbit server, containing protocol, host, and port.  Will have the form `amqps://<host>:<port>`        |
| `lms.rabbitmq.username`           | Username used to access the Rabbit server                                                                             |                                                                                                                      |
| `lms.rabbitmq.password`           | Password for the user accessing the Rabbit server                                                                     |
| `lms.rabbitmq.virtualHost`        | Virtual host of the Rabbit server.  Most likely `/`.                                                                  |
| `lms.rabbitmq.queue_env_suffix`   | Environment specific queue suffix.  Allows for some "safety" if multiple instances run off of the same rabbit server. |

### Redis Configuration (optional)
If you would like to use Redis for session storage, you will need to enable it by including the value `redis-session` into the `SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE` environment variable. Be aware that if the tool requires multiple values, that there could be more than one profile value in there.

Additionally, the following properties need to be set to configure the communication with Redis.
Then can be set in a properties file, or overridden as environment variables.

| Property                | Description                                    |
|-------------------------|------------------------------------------------|
| `spring.redis.host`     | Redis server host.                             |
| `spring.redis.port`     | Redis server port.                             |
| `spring.redis.database` | Database index used by the connection factory. |
| `spring.redis.password` | Login password of the redis server.            |


### Vault Configuration (optional)
If you would like to use HasiCorp's Vault for secure property storage, you will need to enable it by including the value `vault` into the `SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE` environment variable. Be aware that if the tool requires multiple values, that there could be more than one profile value in there.
Include any `spring.cloud.vault.*` properties that your environment requires in a properties file, or override as environment variables.

### Exposing the LTI authz REST endpoints
If you would like to expose the LTI authz endpoints in this tool (for CRUD operations on the LTI authorizations), you will
need to enable it by including the value `ltirest` into the `SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE` environment variable. Be aware that
if the tool requires multiple values, that there could be more than one profile value in there.

#### Enabling swagger-ui for the LTI authz REST endpoints
:warning: Experimental :warning:

If you would like to enable the swagger-ui for interacting with the endpoints, include the value `swagger` into the `SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE` environment variable.
Once enabled, the ui will be available at `/api/lti/swagger-ui.html`.  There are some additional OAuth2 considerations
that need to be accounted for while using this setup.

This is marked as experimental due to the fact that we aren't running with this option at IU.  We are running into CORS
issues when trying to talk to our OAuth2 service via swagger, so we can't verify if it really works or not!

## Running the "cleanup" job
In order for this tool to work, the code will temporarily elevate the sender to an account administrator.  
If something happens to go wrong in the job so that it doesn't get to its own cleanup activities, a user could be left with elevated permissions.  
This poses a potential security risk (even though the approved users should be vetted beforehand).  
To help with this, there is a job [CanvasNotifierExpireElevationsJob](src/main/java/edu/iu/uits/lms/canvasnotifier/job/CanvasNotifierExpireElevationsJob.java) 
that will look for notifier processes older than 5 minutes where a user was and still is elevated.
Feel free to run this job at an interval that makes sense.

Commit message:

LMSA-8435 - little bits of cleanup, updated readme, adding the derdack.properties file to the config.import

README.md, after:

# lms-canvas-canvas-notifier
App for authorized users to send Canvas messages to users in bulk.

## :warning: Important Security Disclaimer :warning:
This tool will temporarily elevate the permissions of the designated sender to that of an account admin in your Canvas instance.
Make sure that you are cool with that before using this tool!

## Running standalone
Add env vars or system properties as desired.

| ENV Property                           | System Property                        | Default Value             | Description                                                                                                    |
|----------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|---------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `APP_FULLFILEPATH`                     | `app.fullFilePath`                     | `/usr/src/app/config`     | Directory for configuration files                                                                              |
| `APP_OVERRIDESFILENAME`                | `app.overridesFileName`                | `overrides.properties`    | Customizable filename for additional configurations.  Would be located in the above directory.                 |
| `SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE`               | `spring.profiles.active`               |                           | Supply spring profiles to activate.  See configuration details below for potential values.                     |
| `APP_ENV`                              | `app.env`                              | `dev`                     | Environment designator.  Free-form and can be used for your own purposes.  Shows up in the application footer. |
| `LTI_CLIENTREGISTRATION_DEFAULTCLIENT` | `lti.clientregistration.defaultClient` | canvas                    | Specify the launching configuration to expect (canvas/saltire)                                                 |

## Setup Database
After compiling, see `target/generated-resources/sql/ddl/auto/postgresql9.sql` for appropriate ddl.
Insert a record into the `LTI_13_AUTHZ` table with your tool's registration_id (`lms_lti_canvasnotifier`), along with the client_id 
and secret from Canvas's Developer Key.  An `env` designator is also required here, and allows a database to support 
multiple environments simultaneously (dev and reg, for example).

### Add authorized users and senders
Add to the `CANVASNOTIFIER_USERS` table (either directly or via the rest endpoint) a record that maps to a user in your Canvas instance. 
A user in this table can either be a user, sender, or both.  Setting the appropriate flags will determine what that user can do.


## Test a local launch
Startup the application with the `LTI_CLIENTREGISTRATION_DEFAULTCLIENT` value set to `saltire`.
Use an LTI tool consumer launcher, like https://saltire.lti.app/platform.
Default values are fine, with the below exceptions...

In the `Message` section, set the following:
<table>
<tr><th>Property</th><th>Value</th></tr>
<tr><td>Custom parameters</td><td>

```
canvas_user_login_id=johnsmith
canvas_membership_roles=Instructor
```

</td></tr>
</table>

Use an appropriate `canvas_user_login_id`.

From the `Security Model` section, set the following:
<table>
<tr><th>Property</th><th>Value</th></tr>
<tr><td>LTI version</td><td>1.3.0</td></tr>
<tr><td>Message URL</td><td>http://localhost:8080/app/main</td></tr>
<tr><td>Client ID</td><td>dev (or whatever is appropriate based on the record inserted in the database table from above)</td></tr>
<tr><td>Initiate login URL</td><td>http://localhost:8080/lti/login_initiation/lms_lti_canvasnotifier</td></tr>
<tr><td>Redirection URI(s)</td><td>http://localhost:8080/lti/login</td></tr>
</table>

## Canvas JSON
Example json for the tool can be found in the [examples](examples) directory.

## Configuration
If choosing to use properties files for the configuration values, the default location is `/usr/src/app/config`, but that can be overridden by setting the `APP_FULLFILEPATH` value via system property or environment variable.
You may use `security.properties`, `overrides.properties`, or set the `APP_OVERRIDESFILENAME` value with your desired file name.

### Canvas Configuration
The following properties need to be set to configure the communication with Canvas and Canvas Catalog.
They can be set in a properties file, or overridden as environment variables.

| Property             | Default Value               | Description                                               |
|----------------------|-----------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|
| `canvas.host`        |                             | Hostname of the Canvas instance                           |
| `canvas.baseUrl`     | https://`${canvas.host}`    | Base URL of the Canvas instance                           |
| `canvas.baseApiUrl`  | `${canvas.baseUrl}`/api/v1  | Base URL for the Canvas API                               |
| `canvas.token`       |                             | Token for access to Canvas instance                       |
| `canvas.accountId`   |                             | Your institution's root accountId in your Canvas instance |
| `catalog.baseUrl`    |                             | Base URL of the Canvas Catalog instance                   |
| `catalog.baseApiUrl` | `${catalog.baseUrl}`/api/v1 | Base URL for the Canvas Catalog API                       |
| `catalog.token`      |                             | Token for access to the Canvas Catalog instance           |

### Database Configuration
The following properties need to be set to configure the communication with a database.
They can be set in a properties file, or overridden as environment variables.

| Property             | Description                                                                   |
|----------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `lms.db.user`        | Username used to access the database                                          |
| `lms.db.url`         | JDBC URL of the database.  Will have the form `jdbc:<host>:<port>/<database>` |
| `lms.db.driverClass` | JDBC Driver class name                                                        |
| `lms.db.password`    | Password for the user accessing the database                                  |

### Configure support contact information
The following properties need to be set to configure the contact information on the global error page.
They can be set in a security.properties file, or overridden as environment variables.

| Property                | Description                                                                                               |
|-------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `lti.errorcontact.name` | Display name for your support organization                                                                |
| `lti.errorcontact.link` | Contact mechanism - URL or mailto:email (e.g. `http://support.school.edu` or `mailto:support@school.edu`) |

### Configure recipients for job notifications
| Property                                 | Description                                                                  |
|------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `canvasnotifier.batchNotificationEmail`  | Comma separated list of email addresses where job notifications will be sent |

### Denodo Configuration
To enable the Denodo configuration, include the value `denodo` into the `SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE` environment variable. Be aware that if the tool requires multiple values, that there could be more than one profile value in there.
The following properties need to be set to configure the communication with the Denodo database.
They can be set in a properties file, or overridden as environment variables.

| Property                | Description                                                                                |
|-------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `denodo.db.driverClass` | JDBC Driver class name                                                                     |
| `denodo.db.url`         | JDBC URL of the Denodo database.  Will have the form `jdbc:vdb://<host>:<port>/<database>` |
| `denodo.db.user`        | Username used to access the Denodo database                                                |
| `denodo.db.password`    | Password for the user accessing the Denodo database                                        |

### Derdack Configuration
To enable the Derdack configuration (only needed for the batch job), include the value `derdack` into the `SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE` environment variable. Be aware that if the tool requires multiple values, that there could be more than one profile value in there.
The following properties need to be set to configure the communication with the Derdack API.
They can be set in a properties file, or overridden as environment variables.

| Property                  | Description                                                     |
|---------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
| `derdack.baseUrl`         | Base URL for the Derdack API endpoint                           |
| `derdack.apiKey`          | API key fr the Derdack API                                      |
| `derdack.team`            | ADS Group used to identify the team where notifications will go |
| `derdack.recipientEmail`  | Email recipient used for non-critical notifications             |

### Rabbit MQ Configuration
Job processing happens in the background, via a RabbitMQ job.  Configuring the queue requires the following settings:

| Property                          | Description                                                                                                           |
|-----------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `lms.rabbitmq.address`            | Address of the Rabbit server, containing protocol, host, and port.  Will have the form `amqps://<host>:<port>`        |
| `lms.rabbitmq.username`           | Username used to access the Rabbit server                                                                             |                                                                                                                      |
| `lms.rabbitmq.password`           | Password for the user accessing the Rabbit server                                                                     |
| `lms.rabbitmq.virtualHost`        | Virtual host of the Rabbit server.  Most likely `/`.                                                                  |
| `lms.rabbitmq.queue_env_suffix`   | Environment specific queue suffix.  Allows for some "safety" if multiple instances run off of the same rabbit server. |

### Redis Configuration (optional)
If you would like to use Redis for session storage, you will need to enable it by including the value `redis-session` into the `SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE` environment variable. Be aware that if the tool requires multiple values, that there could be more than one profile value in there.

Additionally, the following properties need to be set to configure the communication with Redis.
Then can be set in a properties file, or overridden as environment variables.

| Property                | Description                                    |
|-------------------------|------------------------------------------------|
| `spring.redis.host`     | Redis server host.                             |
| `spring.redis.port`     | Redis server port.                             |
| `spring.redis.database` | Database index used by the connection factory. |
| `spring.redis.password` | Login password of the redis server.            |


### Vault Configuration (optional)
If you would like to use HasiCorp's Vault for secure property storage, you will need to enable it by including the value `vault` into the `SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE` environment variable. Be aware that if the tool requires multiple values, that there could be more than one profile value in there.
Include any `spring.cloud.vault.*` properties that your environment requires in a properties file, or override as environment variables.

### Exposing the LTI authz REST endpoints
If you would like to expose the LTI authz endpoints in this tool (for CRUD operations on the LTI authorizations), you will
need to enable it by including the value `ltirest` into the `SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE` environment variable. Be aware that
if the tool requires multiple values, that there could be more than one profile value in there.

#### Enabling swagger-ui for the LTI authz REST endpoints
:warning: Experimental :warning:

If you would like to enable the swagger-ui for interacting with the endpoints, include the value `swagger` into the `SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE` environment variable.
Once enabled, the ui will be available at `/api/lti/swagger-ui.html`.  There are some additional OAuth2 considerations
that need to be accounted for while using this setup.

This is marked as experimental due to the fact that we aren't running with this option at IU.  We are running into CORS
issues when trying to talk to our OAuth2 service via swagger, so we can't verify if it really works or not!

## Running the "cleanup" job
In order for this tool to work, the code will temporarily elevate the sender to an account administrator.  
If something happens to go wrong in the job so that it doesn't get to its own cleanup activities, a user could be left with elevated permissions.  
This poses a potential security risk (even though the approved users should be vetted beforehand).  
To help with this, there is a job [CanvasNotifierExpireElevationsJob](src/main/java/edu/iu/uits/lms/canvasnotifier/job/CanvasNotifierExpireElevationsJob.java) 
that will look for notifier processes older than 5 minutes where a user was and still is elevated.
Feel free to run this job at an interval that makes sense.
